---
title: Portus 2.1 has been released!
author: Miquel Sabaté Solà
layout: blogpost
---

It's been a long release and with it we have tried to add as many new exciting
features as possible. That being said, we haven't been able to include all the
features that we initially planned, but more on that later!

First of all, we have improved the support for Docker Distribution, so Portus
should be able to handle the latest release of Docker Distribution (2.5.1 at the
time of writing). Moreover, since Docker Distribution 2.4, now administrators
can garbage collect orphaned blobs from their registries. Because of this, we
decided that it was about time to implement image/tag deletion! We
[blogged about this](/2016/06/20/removing-images-and-tags.html) in June, but
you can read more about this in the
[documentation](/features/removing_images.html) too. Similarly, we have also
implemented [user removal](/features/7_disabling_users.html#removing-users).

Besides this, webhooks can also be added into Portus. With this, you can tell
Portus to send an HTTP request (with the given headers, etc.) after receiving
a push/delete event. Thomas [blogged about this](/2016/07/26/webhooks.html) on
July. Another exciting feature is the addition of
[application tokens](/features/application_tokens.html). This is an important
step on the security front, and we are sure that users will appreciate it.

Moreover, we were fortunate enough to have a
[Google Summer of Code](https://summerofcode.withgoogle.com/)
student with us. [Matheus](https://github.com/msfernandes) helped us greatly on
the UI/UX front, providing tons of fixes and nice touches. You can read about
his experiences with us in his [blog](http://msfernandes.github.io/blog/).

These are the coolest features from this new release, but there are many more
features and fixes. Make sure to read the
[release notes](https://github.com/SUSE/Portus/releases/tag/2.1.0)!

Finally, we'd like to thank all the contributors that have helped during the
development of this release. It's been awesome to see all the different
contributions and it certainly motivates us to go on with Portus. Thanks!

#### Upgrading from Portus 2.0.x

We have detailed all the needed steps to upgrade from a 2.0.x release to 2.1 in
[this page](/docs/upgrading-portus.html#upgrading-from-20-to-21). If you are
using an even older version of Portus, please consider upgrading to Portus 2.0.5 first.

#### What to expect in the future

Portus is a relatively young project, and we have maintained it in the best way
we could. There have been aspects of the development of Portus that we could
have handled better though, and we want to fix this sooner rather than later. In
particular:

- The release schedule was unclear and it was never properly documented.
- We should release more often. Almost a year has passed since the 2.0 release.
- The feature list was never properly specified, so users never knew what was
  coming.
- Documentation could be better.

This is an incomplete list of issues that some of our users have been
complaining about our release cycle, and we couldn't agree more. To remedy this,
we are going to provide a better release schedule for the 2.2 release. In the
following weeks we'll specify all the details about this. Stay tuned!
