---
title: Portus 2.2 has been released!
author: Miquel Sabaté Solà
layout: blogpost
---

In October we planned the 2.2.0 release of Portus, and a lot of things have
happened meanwhile (see [this](https://www.suse.com/communities/blog/introducing-suse-containers-service-platform/) and [this](http://thenewstack.io/micro-os-suses-answer-container-os/)).
This means that even if our initial goals were quite modest, we had to be more
conservative in regards of the features and fixes that we could actually deliver
for this new release of Portus.

For this reason, this release is more about fixing issues, rather than adding
new shiny features. That being said, there are a couple of improvements that we
would like to highlight:

- `portusctl` will now raise a warning whenever you are trying to use the
  `--local-registry` flag, but the package is not installed in your local
  computer. This was a common pitfall for openSUSE and SLE users, so we decided
  to go ahead and improve this situation.
- Portus now also supports Docker Distribution 2.5 and 2.6. In these two
  releases, the developers of Docker Distribution polished some rough edges that
  needed to be taken into consideration on the Portus side.

Besides these features, we have included lots of fixes for bugs that the
community has been spotting in past releases. You can read about this on the
[changelog](https://github.com/SUSE/Portus/releases/tag/2.2.0).

#### Upgrading from Portus 2.1.x

All the details for upgrading from 2.1.x to 2.2 have been detailed in
[this page](/docs/upgrading-portus.html#upgrading-from-21-to-22). The
instructions are quite simple: only a simple database migration is needed.

#### Next...

In the following days we will specify all the details about the next
release.
