---
title: Portus 2.3 released!
author: Miquel Sabaté Solà
layout: blogpost
---

It's been almost a year since we released Portus 2.2, but we can finally present
to you the latest release of Portus. We wanted to deliver this new release much
sooner, but some late-coming features changed the release schedule quite a bit,
so we had to spend more time for the final release.

For this release we have improved lots of small UX details and we have fixed as
many bugs as we could from the 2.2 release. You can check the
[changelog](https://github.com/SUSE/Portus/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md) for more
info of this release, but in this blog post we want to highlight the following
new features:

#### Security scanning

Portus is now able to scan security vulnerabilities on your Docker images. This
is done with different backends, where the stable one is [CoreOS
Clair](https://github.com/coreos/clair). You have to enable the desired backends
and then Portus will use them to fetch known security vulnerabilities for your
images.


**Note**: this version of Portus supports Clair v2 specifically (current
`master` branch is not supported).

You can read the [blog
post](http://port.us.org/2017/07/19/security-scanning.html) or the
[documentation](/features/6_security_scanning.html) for more info.

#### Background process

One of the main issues for Portus was that sometimes it took too long to
complete certain critical tasks. For this release we have moved these tasks
into a separate *background* process. This background process resides in the
`bin/background.rb` file, and it can be enabled for containerized deployments
by setting the `PORTUS_BACKGROUND` environment variable to true.

The following tasks have been moved into this new process:

- *Security scanning*: after testing security scanning more in depth, we noticed
  that sometimes it could block Portus when showing the main page for
  repositories. This was the first task moved into this new process.
- *Registry events*: before creating this process, we dealt with incoming
  registry events in the main Portus process. The problem with this was that
  after getting a *push* event, for example, Portus had to fetch manifests,
  which could take quite some time. This meant that Portus got blocked in some
  deployments. Now Portus will simply log the event, and then the background
  process will process it right away (by default this process will check for
  events every 2 seconds).
- *Registry synchronization*: we have removed the *crono* process in favor of
  this new process. Hence, the code that was executed in previous releases by
  crono has been merged as another task of this new process.

**Note** on deployment: this new background process has to have access to the
same database as the main Portus process.

#### Anonymous browsing

Portus will now allow anonymous users to search for public images. This is a
configurable option which is enabled by default. You can read more about this
[in the documentation](http://port.us.org/features/anonymous_browsing.html).

#### OAuth & OpenID Connect support

Portus' authentication logic has been extended to allow OAuth & OpenID
Connect. For OAuth you are allowed to login through the following adapters:
Google, Github, Gitlab and Bitbucket. Check the `config/config.yml` file for
more info on the exact configurable options.

**Thanks a lot** to Vadim Bauer ([@Vad1mo](https://github.com/Vad1mo)) and
Andrei Kislichenko ([@andrew2net](https://github.com/andrew2net)) for working on
this!

#### API

An effort to design and implement an API for Portus has been started. This is
useful for CLI tools like [portusctl](https://github.com/openSUSE/portusctl)
among other user cases. We do not consider the API to be in a stable state, but
it is useful already. We will continue this effort in forthcoming
releases.

**Thanks a lot** to Vadim Bauer ([@Vad1mo](https://github.com/Vad1mo)) and
Andrei Kislichenko ([@andrew2net](https://github.com/andrew2net)) for working on
this!

#### Puma

The deployment of Portus has been simplified as much as possible. For this
reason we have removed a *lot* of clutter on our official Docker image, and we
have embraced best practices for deploying Ruby on Rails applications. For this
reason we have set Puma as the web server for Portus.

#### Production deployment examples

We provide in the source code examples that illustrate how Portus is intended to
be deployed on production. These examples reside in the `examples`
directory.

#### Helm Chart

An official [Helm
Chart](https://github.com/kubic-project/caasp-services/tree/master/contrib/helm-charts/portus)
for deploying Portus in a Kubernetes cluster is being developed. It is expected
to be released soon after this release.

#### PostgreSQL support

Some tools like CoreOS Clair require PostgreSQL as their database. When
developing support for security scanning we noticed that it was quite redundant
to have two different databases running. For this reason, we have added
PostgreSQL support, so you can use PostgreSQL for both Portus and Clair.

#### Upgrade to Ruby 2.5

Some features required an upgrade of Ruby. Since SLE 15 and Tumbleweed will most
likely have Ruby 2.5 as their default version, we have anticipated this
move. So, now Portus is supported for Ruby 2.5. If you try to run Portus on
previous versions, it will error out during initialization.

### Upgrading from 2.2

These are the things that you have to take into account before moving to 2.3:

- As explained above, Puma is now the HTTP server being used. Make sure to use
  the `PORTUS_PUMA_TLS_KEY` and the `PORTUS_PUMA_TLS_CERT` environment variables
  to point puma to the right paths for the certificates. Moreover, if you are
  not using the official Docker image, you will have to use the
  `PORTUS_PUMA_HOST` environment variable to tell Puma where to bind itself (in
  containerized deployments it will bind by default to `0.0.0.0:3000`).
- The database environment variables have changed the prefix from
  `PORTUS_PRODUCTION_` to `PORTUS_DB_`. Moreover, you will be able now to
  provide values for the following items: adapter (set it to `postgresql` for
  PostgreSQL support), port, pool and timeout. All these values are prefixed by
  `PORTUS_DB_` as well, so for example, to provide a value for the pool you need
  to set `PORTUS_DB_POOL`.
- As stated above, set the `PORTUS_BACKGROUND` environment variable to true for
  the background process.
- You can set `RAILS_SERVE_STATIC_FILES` to true if you want Portus to serve the
  assets directly (e.g. if you don't want a load-balancer like NGinx or HAproxy
  to do this).
- Portus will complain if you forgot to specify some relevant environment
  variables for production like `PORTUS_MACHINE_FQDN_VALUE`.

Finally, we are not running migrations automatically anymore as we used to do
before. This is now to be done by the administrator by executing (on the Portus
context in `/srv/Portus` or simply as part of a `docker exec` command):

```
$ portusctl exec rake db:migrate
```

### What's next

We have already documented the [release process](/docs/release-schedule) for
2.4. The idea from now on is to release earlier and more often. You can take a
look at our planned features for 2.4
[here](https://github.com/SUSE/Portus/milestone/17).
